[Music]
all right so cmf phone one by nothing is
kind of a confusing name but what this
phone's trying to do not confusing at
all love it or hate it this is one of
the most interesting new phones in the
world at the moment because nothing came
along a few years ago and said hey what
if we tried to make an average budget
phone but with a focus on software and
design and it kind of worked those
phones are pretty good and so now cmf is
the budget sub brand of nothing and
they've come along and said hey well
what if we did the same thing but even
more so that's how you end up with this
this is a $200 Android phone that on
paper doesn't really stand out specs
wise in the sea of other $200 Android
phones that can get but it absolutely
does stand out with its software and
design and I just want to start with the
design first because that's the most
interesting thing about this phone by a
mile so this is the cmf phone in black
and on the surface it's nothing too
crazy right it's got flat sides pretty
average bezels all the way around this
big AMOLED display and dual cameras up
in the corner on the back but then you
realize two things first there's a knob
like a dial down here at the bottom
corner corner of the phone and second
there's also a bunch of these metal
screws all the way around the outside
and that's because this plastic back is
completely removable and replaceable in
a couple different colors there's black
there's also orange there's a blue and
there is a light blue which also kind of
has a little green Hue to it depending
on who you ask so right off the bat this
idea is pretty unique like for any phone
especially at this price I remember back
in the Moto Maker days a while ago you
could sort of customize your phone but
that was also much more permanent and
it's been many years since we had
removable backs on phones and even
though nothing else comes off and the
battery isn't removable and the back
still feels super cheap and flexible
because it is but once it's on the phone
it feels pretty rigid and sturdy and
it's still cool to see the ability to
change the color and it's it's a
convenient little upsell for the company
that's selling the phone itself for so
cheap so then in the Box for the cover
you also get this little orange combo
Sim ejector tool and flathead
screwdriver since you'll need this tool
to remove the SIM card tray and all of
the screws to get the back off and then
it comes with a matching SIM card tray
and dial to pop on the back so that
everything matches up but you can also
totally mix and match if you want it
kind of makes the phone maybe feel a
little bit more like your own so the
color changing back is one thing but
then there's also this knob I keep
pointing at down here in the corner and
this is a separate feature so I remember
when they first started started teasing
this on Twitter we were trying to figure
out like on the waveform podcast like
what is this going to be is this a
volume knob is this going to be just
like a fidget toy or is it a mappable
thing with the software like what's the
what's the knob uh and it turns out it's
a mounting attaching point for some
accessories so it's not like something
that spins freely it's kind of just a
fancy thumb screw with a colorful cap
and if you take it off you can replace
it with one of three accessories that
they've made so far there is a kickstand
which lets you prop up your phone on
like a flat table or a surface there's
also a card holder wallet which lets me
put up to four cards in the back and
then slap it on the back with magnets
and carry it around with me and there's
a lanyard uh not sure how many people
are going to put their phone on a lyard
but you now at least have the option to
you can securely attach it to the corner
of the phone so is this a
gimmick I'm going to vote no I I think
that kickstand is the one thing that I
would actually want to have on my phone
or at least the option to have on my
phone whenever I want it's kind of nice
that that's available for it but in
general it's just the main point of it
is it's one more useful thing to
separate it from other phones at 200
bucks in the design Department I was
going to say it feels kind of like an
ultra budget version of Mag safe where
instead of having magnets you literally
have to screw the thing onto your phone
but then I realized wait this magnet
accessory which is the plate that you
screw onto the back of your phone for
the wallet connects with this
suspiciously familiar looking ring of
magnets in the middle so Just for kicks
I slapped a MAG safe mount on there and
it's stuck like really well so I
actually think if you want to buy uh
like a car mount or some accessory to
attach to this phone I actually think
you could buy a MAG safe one this is the
moment mag safe Puck and it will hold
the phone from the back so the more you
know now it obviously takes a bit of
work several screws the SIM card ejector
tool and the twisting and all that to
take these accessories off the back of
the phone and put a new one on so this
isn't something you'd probably do every
day or multiple times per day or
anything like that but it works you have
the ability to and then when there's
nothing on the back of the phone this
dial actually kind of protrudes the
exact same amount as the camera bump in
the opposite corner so it prevents it
from rocking back and forth at all well
played cmf well played so they've got
lots of neat little Hardware
customizations but the other important
thing about a phone is what it's
actually like to use so I've been using
the cmf phone one for the better part of
about a week now and to be honest it
feels just like I'm using a nothing
phone which is a compliment matter of
fact it's literally running nothing OS
2.6 and aside from the light up glyph
interface it's not missing a single
feature that the more premium nothing
phones actually have it's got the cloned
apps feature where you can have more
than one instance of a single app
installed uh it's got game mode it's got
the clever little one-handed pull down
gesture where you can pull down the
notifications without reaching and of
course all the Aesthetics you know the
icon pack the home screen widgets the
dots font all that fun stuff you still
have that spot where you can view all of
your notification history underrated
feature you know just it behaves exactly
like a nothing phone and using this
phone I can honestly say that there were
stretches of time where I'd forget I was
using an ultra cheap phone like it's
it's a fairly bright responsive display
it's typically 5 to 700 nits but it's an
AMOLED that Peaks at 2,000 nits and it's
adaptive between 60 and 120 HZ with a
240 HZ touch sample rate so it's
decently smooth and quick so you know
just flipping around through the daily
inconsequential stuff like scrolling
through social media or or reading
emails or light web browsing for that
stuff of course this phone is totally
fine super smooth the chip powering
everything here is the mediatech
dimensity 7300 5G it's about on par with
the Snapdragon 7 gen 1 as far as
benchmarks and they pair it with either
6 or 8 gigs of RAM depending on what
spec you get it's really decently well
equipped for 200 bucks but you can
definitely get this phone to show its
price though like it's not perfect these
aren't complaints these are just facts
about the tradeoffs you obviously have
to make to get a phone to be this cheap
so like this phone has a 5,000 mAh
battery and a really solid battery life
but there's no wireless charging and of
course there's no charger included in
the box if you're wondering though it
supports up to 33 WS but then this phone
also has no NFC it has a really crappy
cheap vibration motor it has a single
mono speaker down here at the bottom
that's surprisingly easy to just block
with one finger the IAL unders screen
fingerprint sensor I actually think
that's pretty impressive for this price
range but it's also been noticeably on
the slower side for me and sometimes
asked for multiple reads before
unlocking and then these plastic backs
you know like I said they feel fine when
they're attached to the frame of the
phone but like a car bumper when they're
not attached to the frame you can really
feel how flimsy they are these are
plastic the buttons in here are they
feel like they're literally held on by
elastic that I feel like I could snap at
any moment I mean they haven't yet but
they just look like they could and of
course with removable backs the whole
phone can't be super water resistant so
it's just ip52 rated basically just good
for a splash and we all know budget
phone cameras have never been anything
special this phone is rocking a Sony
sensor it's a 50 megapixel primary
sensor for the camera and it takes I
would say serviceable photos they're not
terrible I would say you know it's an
IMX 882 so it's actually the same sensor
that's in the Poco F6 and the real 12
Pro and some other pretty budget phones
and also the Moto Edge for some reason
but anyway there's also no ois so when
the light starts going away it gets
rough pretty quick and then that second
sensor up at the top uh well that's not
a camera at all that actually it almost
never really does anything turns out
it's just a depth sensor for
specifically shooting 2x portrait mode
photos to get a bit of a cleaner more
accurate bokeh cutout but it didn't o
complain much at all when I took photos
with it covered or anytime while
shooting actually so hey budget phones
make sacrifices that's not a New Concept
here but I like the set of tradeoffs
that they made with this one I mean
squinting back at it it doesn't look bad
for a $200 phone and I think the set of
trade-offs that they made in the name of
really good design and
software I like it now this phone is
mainly targeted towards India that's the
market that it's supposed to be most
competitive in and in that market yeah
there's other cheap phones they're a
little more expensive than this but they
will also have like the two years of
software updates and three years of
security updates they will also have you
know big screens and relatively thin
bezels and mediatech chips they're
usually not ameds though so that's good
about this one and a lot of them will
also have Micro SD card expansion which
this phone also has probably the only
notable missing thing is NFC but but
just the sheer amount of time I was able
to enjoy using this phone and not
thinking about its price because of how
smooth it is all the software features
it has that's pretty sick it's the $200
phone engineered to look cool basically
and cmf has also just introduced a bunch
of other stuff as well there's a new
smartwatch $69 nice also a new set of
earbuds
$59 so to give you an idea of what
they're working on but let me know what
you think that's my review of the cmf
phone one thanks for watching catch you
guys in the next one peace